.TH "TRAY-RADIO" 1 2019-09-17
.SH tray-radio
.LP
Internet radio and media file tray icon menu
.SS Target User
.LP
You want to select Internet radio stations and other media, from a menu using
your existing «\f[CR].m3u\f[R]» playlists and/or URL lists.
.LP
You maintain your playlists as text files without extra frills.
.LP
You want a light-weight, quick, simple solution without flashy graphics.
.SS Installing
.LP
This script can be installed and started from a command line shell prompt.
No iconic shortcut or application menu is available.
.LP
First, install all dependencies \(em see section \f[I]Dependencies\f[R].
.LP
Then download the latest archive \f[B]attachment\f[R] from the release 
page\f[I]:1\f[R].
Unpack the archive into a folder of your choice.
.LP
From that folder run the following command «\f[CR]install/bin/install.sh\f[R]».
This will start an interactive installer, which includes a Help screen.
.LP
Assuming a successful installation with default settings, you should be able to
run «\f[CR]/usr/bin/tray-radio --tray &\f[R]» to start the tray icon.
.LP
\f[B]Important\f[R] \(em After having completed the installation you \f[B]must\f[R] save file «\f[CR]install.log\f[R]», which is located in folder «\f[CR]install/\f[R]», if you want to be able to
uninstall this program in the future.  Indeed, it is recommended to save the
whole folder «\f[CR]install/\f[R]», which holds the uninstall program and the log file.
.SS Dependencies
.LP
Install «\f[CR]gtkmenuplus\f[R]»
\f[I]:2\f[R].
.LP
Optionally install the «\f[CR]mpg123\f[R]»
\f[I]:3\f[R]
command-line MP3 player (recommended).
Details vary by OS distribution.
Fatdog64 800 already includes mpg123 in the base OS.
For Fatdog64 7xx, install the 
package\f[I]:4\f[R]
using the gslapt package manager.
.LP
Running «\f[CR]tray-radio --help=all\f[R]» will list other dependencies near the end of
the output text.
.SS Uninstalling
.LP
From the folder where you unpacked the downloaded archive run the following
command: «\f[CR]install/bin/uninstall.sh\f[R]».
This will start an interactive uninstaller, which includes a Help screen.
.SS Help
.LP
Run one of the following lines:
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
tray-radio --help
tray-radio --help=all
tray-radio --help=all-gui
.ft
.fi
.SS FILES
.LP
/usr/share/tray-icon/ \(em Default playlist folder
.SS FAQ
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'1.  'u
1.  Can tray-radio use my preferred media player \(oqxyz\(cq?
.RE
.LP
Yes. It can even use different media players in the same menu. See help topic
\f[I]DEFAULT PLAY COMMAND\f[R].
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'2.  'u
2.  Can I format menu items with color, different fonts, etc.?
.RE
.LP
Yes. You can apply all «\f[CR]gtkmenuplus\f[R]» formatting 
directives\f[I]:2\f[R].
See help topic \f[I]GTKMENUPLUS-ENTRY\f[R].
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'3.  'u
3.  Can I add icons to the menu?
.RE
.LP
Yes. Use «\f[CR]#menu icon=\f[R]». An example is shown when you run «\f[CR]tray-radio --help=all\f[R]».
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'4.  'u
4.  Does tray-radio support theming?
.RE
.LP
Yes. It supports GTK2 menu themes, so you can change the way the menu looks,
and the icon set associated with the theme. See help topic \f[I]THEMING\f[R].
.SS AUTHOR
.LP
step
.SS LINKS
.LP
\f[B]Homepage\f[R]
\f[I]github.com/step-/scripts-to-go\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:1\f[R] release page
\f[I]github.com/step-/scripts-to-go/releases\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:2\f[R] gtkmenuplus
\f[I]github.com/step-/gtkmenuplus\f[R]
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  formatting directives
\f[I]blob/master/docs/menu_configuration_file_format.md\f[R]
.RE
.LP
\f[B]:3\f[R] mpg123
\f[I]mpg123.de\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:4\f[R] Fatdog64 7xx «\f[CR]mpg123\f[R]» package
\f[I]distro.ibiblio.org/fatdog/contrib/packages/710/mpg123-1.23.8-x86_64-1.txz\f[R]
