.TH "GMENU2-FDCP" 1 2019-10-13
.SH gmenu2-fdcp
.LP
Stand-alone Fatdog64 control menu (also gmenu2 extension)
.SS Intended Use
.LP
As a stand-alone menu equivalent to the Fatdog64 control panel for
Fatdog64 700-721 users.
.LP
As a 
gmenu2\f[I]:6\f[R]
extension.
.SS Installing
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Fatdog64 800 already provides a very similar Control Menu.
.RE
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  As a gmenu2 extension this script is only needed for Fatdog64 «\f[CR]<=\f[R]» 802.
.RE
.LP
This script can be installed from a command line shell prompt.
It should be installed to «\f[CR]/\f[R]» for system-wide availability.
.LP
It can be started from a shell prompt.  The installer also adds a \(lqFatdog64
Control Menu (gmenu2-fdcp)\(rq entry in section \(lqSetup\(rq of the system application menu.
.LP
First, install all dependencies, see 
\f[I]Dependencies\f[R].
.LP
Then download the latest archive \f[B]attachment\f[R] from the release 
page\f[I]:1\f[R].
Unpack the archive into a folder of your choice.
.LP
From that folder run the following command: «\f[CR]install/bin/install.sh\f[R]».
This will start an interactive installer, which includes a Help screen.
.LP
Assuming a successful installation with default settings, enter command
«\f[CR]gmenu2-fdcp\f[R]» in a shell prompt to display the control menu.
.LP
\f[B]Important\f[R] \(em After having completed the installation you \f[B]must\f[R] save file
«\f[CR]install.log\f[R]», which is located in folder «\f[CR]install/\f[R]», if you want to be able to
uninstall gmenu2-fdcp in the future.  Indeed, it is recommended to save the
whole folder «\f[CR]install/\f[R]», which holds the uninstall program and the log file.
.SS Dependencies
.LP
Install «\f[CR]gtkmenuplus\f[R]»
\f[I]:2\f[R].
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Since version 800, Fatdog64 includes gtkmenuplus; no need to install it again.
.RE
.SS Uninstalling
.LP
From the folder where you unpacked the downloaded archive run the following
command: «\f[CR]install/bin/uninstall.sh\f[R]».
This will start an interactive uninstaller, which includes a Help screen.
.SS Configuration
.SS Assigning a global hotkey (optional)
.LP
The following instructions apply to 
sven\f[I]:3\f[R]
\(em the multimedia
keyboard manager in Fatdog64 
Linux\f[I]:4\f[R].
They assume that key Windows+m isn\(cqt already assigned as a hotkey.
If it is assigned, you need to disable the assignment in sven\(cqs configuration
before re-assigning it.
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Right-click the keyboard icon \(en located in the desktop panel icon tray \(ento
open sven\(cqs menu, and select Preferences
.RE
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Click Keyboard > New > Description and type \f[I]Stand-alone Control Menu Win+m\f[R]
.RE
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Click inside input field Key Code with your mouse, then press keys \(lqWindows\(rq
and \(lqm\(rq together, don\(cqt press other keys
.RE
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Click inside input field Text Display with your mouse, then type \(lqSystem and
.RE
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Applications\(rq
.RE
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Click the Program radio button, and type: «\f[CR]gmenu2-fdcp\f[R]»
.RE
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  Click OK and close sven.
.RE
.LP
Press Win+m to test the global hotkey.
.SS Setting a theme (optional)
.LP
If «\f[CR]quicklaunch\f[R]»
\f[I]:5\f[R]
is installed, you can theme the gmenu2 menu using
the themes and instructions provided with the quicklaunch package.
.SS Help
.LP
For a short usage summary run the following line:
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
gmenu-fdcp --help
.ft
.fi
.LP
This file is \(lqthe\(rq help file, so keep it around for future reference
because it isn\(cqt installed by default.  However, if the «\f[CR]man\f[R]» command is
installed, you will be able to view these contents by running command:
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
man gmenu2-fdcp
.ft
.fi
.SS AUTHOR
.LP
step
.SS LINKS
.LP
\f[B]Homepage\f[R]
\f[I]github.com/step-/scripts-to-go\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:1\f[R] release page
\f[I]github.com/step-/scripts-to-go/releases\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:2\f[R] gtkmenuplus
\f[I]github.com/step-/gtkmenuplus\f[R]
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  formatting directives ( «\f[CR]man 5 gtkmenuplus\f[R]» )
\f[I]blob/master/docs/menu_configuration_file_format.md\f[R]
.RE
.LP
\f[B]:3\f[R] sven multimedia keyboard manager
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  source
\f[I]distro.ibiblio.org/fatdog/source/800/sven-20190207.tar.bz2\f[R]
.RE
.sp 1.0v
.RS
.ti -\w'\(bu  'u
\(bu  64-bit binary
\f[I]distro.ibiblio.org/fatdog/packages/800/sven-2019.02-x86_64-1.txz\f[R]
.RE
.LP
\f[B]:4\f[R] Fatdog64 Linux
\f[I]distro.ibiblio.org/fatdog/web/\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:5\f[R] Quicklaunch user menu
\f[I]github.com/step-/gtkmenuplus\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:6\f[R] Gmenu2: Stand-alone extended application menu
\f[I]github.com/step-/gtkmenuplus\f[R]
