.TH "ROXMM" 1 2019-10-05
.SH roxmm
.LP
ROX-Filer SendTo menu emulator
.SS Target User
.LP
Script developers who need to emulate the rox SendTo menu in their
applications.
.LP
ROX-Filer power users and tweakers.
.SS Installing
.LP
This script can be installed and started from a command line shell prompt.
No desktop shortcut or application menu entry is available.
You must install to «\f[CR]/\f[R]» to enable ROX-Filer integration.
The installer will also add several files to your home folder.
.LP
First, install all dependencies \(em see section \f[I]Dependencies\f[R].
.LP
Then download the latest archive \f[B]attachment\f[R] from the release 
page\f[I]:1\f[R].
Unpack the archive into a folder of your choice.
.LP
From that folder run the following command: «\f[CR]install/bin/install.sh\f[R]».
This will start an interactive installer, which includes a Help screen.
.LP
Assuming a successful installation with default settings, you should be able to
run «\f[CR]/usr/bin/roxmm /path/to/file\f[R]» to start a right-click menu for «\f[CR]file\f[R]»
(replace «\f[CR]/path/to/menu\f[R]» with the real path of an existing file).
.LP
Also, a new entry, \(lqRoxmm Item Menu\(rq, should now appear in the rox right-click
SendTo menu of files and folders. This entry is installed to make comparison of
the emulated menu with the actual rox SentTo menu easier.
.LP
\f[B]Important\f[R] \(em After having completed the installation you \f[B]must\f[R] save file
«\f[CR]install.log\f[R]», which is located in folder «\f[CR]install/\f[R]», if you want to be able to
uninstall this program in the future.  Indeed, it is recommended to save the
whole folder «\f[CR]install/\f[R]», which holds the uninstall program and the log file.
.SS Dependencies
.LP
Install «\f[CR]gtkmenuplus\f[R]»
\f[I]:2\f[R].
.SS Uninstalling
.LP
From the folder where you unpacked the downloaded archive run the following
command: «\f[CR]install/bin/uninstall.sh\f[R]».
This will start an interactive uninstaller, which includes a Help screen.
.SS Help
.LP
Run the following line:
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
roxmm --help
.ft
.fi
.SS AUTHOR
.LP
step
.SS LINKS
.LP
\f[B]Homepage\f[R]
\f[I]github.com/step-/scripts-to-go\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:1\f[R] release page
\f[I]github.com/step-/scripts-to-go/releases\f[R]
.LP
\f[B]:2\f[R] gtkmenuplus
\f[I]github.com/step-/gtkmenuplus\f[R]
